<style type="text/css">
main img {
    max-width: 100%;
}
main ul p, main ol p {
  display: block;
}
</style>

# Practice 02. -- Web programming

1. Write "Hello world!" to the

    a. console,

    b. popup window,

    c. document.

1. Ask for a number `N`, and write "Hello World!" `N` times with increasing font size to the document!

1. Get an N number and make it an NxN multiplication table.

1. Write a program that calculates the circumference of a circle!

1. On page load, display the maiden name field, if the female radio button is checked!

    ```html
    <input type="radio" name="sex" value="male" checked> male
    <input type="radio" name="sex" value="female"> female
    Maiden name: <input id="maiden_name">
    ```

1. On page load, list the urls of all of the the hyperlinks!

    ```html
    <a href="http://www.elte.hu">ELTE</a>
    <a href="http://webprogramozas.inf.elte.hu">Web programming</a>
    <a href="http://www.inf.elte.hu">ELTE Faculty of Informatics</a>
    <ul id="urls"></ul>
    ```

1. On page load, create a table of contents from the `h1`,` h2`, `h3`, etc. elements.

2. In a text field write an URL of an image. By clicking a button show the image in the document!

3. Two text input fields and a button are given. Clicking on a button copy the content of one input field into the other!

4. Write a counter component!

    a. The counter consists of a readonly input field and two buttons (increase, decrease). By pressing the buttons the number in the input field increases or decreases by 1.

    b. Define a minimum and a maximum value for the counter. If the number reaches one of them, then make the corresponding button disabled!

5. Write an application for calculating the compound interest! Three text inputs are given: the original amount of money, the interest value, and the period of time in years. Show a table where every row shows the amount of money in every year.

6. The computer thinks of a number! Guess the number! The computer answers whether the guessed number is less or greater than the thought number, or is equal to it.

7. In a library catalogue book data are given. For one book we store:

    - author
    - title
    - year of publish
    - publisher
    
    a. Ask a year in an input field, and list those books which were published in that year!

    b. Fill a dropdown list with the name of the publishers. Selecting one publisher show the books of that publisher in a table!

    c. Typing in a text input, for every keystroke refresh a list of books which contains the typed-in substring.
