<style type="text/css">
main img {
    max-width: 100%;
}
main ul p, main ol p {
  display: block;
}
</style>

# Practice 03. -- Web programming

1. The following HTML is given. When clicking write to the console:

    a. the object to which the event handler is registered;

    b. the type of the event;

    c. the pressed mouse button;

    d. the position of the mouse;

    e. the original source object of the event;

    f. if the event is coming from a `span`, then the text of the `span` element;

    g. if the text of a link is "libero", do not follow the link.

    ```html
    <p>Lorem ipsum <a href="http://translate.google.com/#la/hu/dolor">dolor</a> sit amet, <span>consectetur</span> adipiscing elit. <span>Proin ut faucibus justo.</span> Nullam vulputate iaculis blandit. Sed at placerat mi. Cras volutpat, urna sed accumsan dapibus, <a href="http://www.libero.hu">libero</a> massa cursus felis, eget consectetur libero orci ut sem. Fusce id mollis nibh. In vulputate et turpis eu semper. Sed pharetra tincidunt velit. Fusce pharetra eros vitae placerat luctus. <span>Fusce cursus ultrices tellus et lobortis.</span></p>
    ```

2. Prepare a text input that accepts only numbers.

    a. Do not display any character other than numbers.

    b. The solution should work for any text input with a `number` class attribute.

3. Let's disable any link on the page that does not point to the `elte.hu` domain!

    ```html
    <a href="http://www.elte.hu">ELTE honlapja</a><br>
    <a href="http://webprogramozas.inf.elte.hu">Webprogramozás szerver</a><br>
    <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript">JavaScript referencia</a><br>
    <a href="http://jsfiddle.net/">JavaScript homokozó</a><br>
    ```

4. We store the title, year of release, length, and director for a few movies.

    a. Since there are many films, we would like to have a user interface where only a movie title that contains the text written in the filter box appears in a list.

    b. Hovering the title of the movie, we would like to see all the details of the movie.

5. Make a memory game!

    a. Store numbers in the even number of cells, and find the pairs by turning over only two cards at a time! 
    
    b. Count how many steps you can solve the game! 
    
    c. Make it possible to play with more players, in this case indicate who has the turn!

6. Make a hang-man game! Select a word from a baked-in list, and then draw as many letter boxes as the length of the word. Show a row of buttons where we can guess the individual letters. If the selected letter is right, show the letters in the their positions. If we were wrong, count the incorrect attempts. If it reaches a predefined value, we lose. If all the letters of the word have been revealed, we win! In addition to the counter, we can draw the hang-man with SVG elements!

7. A range input field is given.

    a. Dragging the slider, display the value of the slider next to the field. Think about the event to be used! Write the value in some element next to the slider! Try to create this item dynamically and insert it with the [`insertAdjacentElement()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/insertAdjacentElement) DOM method!

    b. Make the above solution work for any range slider that has a `display-value` class name!

    c. Dragging the slider, display the value above the slider.

8. A FAQ page is given. An element with `faq` style class contains the questions and answers. The questions are in `h2` elements, the answers are in `p` elements below the `h2` elements. Toggle the visibility of the answers by clicking on the questions!

    ```html
    <div class="faq">
        <h2>Question1</h2>
        <p>Long answer for question1.</p>
        <h2>Question2</h2>
        <p>Long answer for question2.</p>
        <h2>Question3</h2>
        <p>Long answer for question3.</p>
        <h2>Question4</h2>
        <p>Long answer for question4.</p>
    </div>
    ```

9. Create an input field accepting a bank account number, placing a space between every four-letter groups!

10. We store the title, publication year, length and director of some movies. As there may be many films, we want to use a user interface where only those movie titles appear in a list that contain the text written in a filter box. If we move the mouse over a movie title,  display all the details of that movie below the list.

11. Create a screencast mode on a page! Display the pressed keyboard keys in a transparent bar at the bottom of the page! Handle the special characters separately, eg. `Ctrl + A`.

12. Make your own context menu by clicking with the right mouse button! Use the `contextmenu` event!