# 8. practice -- Web programming

Tasks
---------

1. In a valid HTML template do the following tasks with PHP.
    
    - a. Write as a header: `"Hello world!"`
    
    - b. Create a variable that stores your name. Using this variable, greet yourself! (`"Hello name!"`)

2. Write the actual time to the page! Use the `date()` function of PHP (see the PHP reference)!

3. Write out the factorial of an arbitrary, baked-in number! Place the code of your factorial calculation into a function!

4. Write out the `'Hello world!'` text 10 times with increasing font sizes!

5. Error messages are given in an array. Show them as an HTML list!

6. On a movie web page we would like to select a movie category from a dropdown list. However, the backend system needs not the text of the category but its identifier value. E.g. 5 - Action, 4 - Drama, 8 - Comedy. Find out the data structure, and then generate the dropdown list based on this data structure!

7. The identifier and description of items are given (e.g. 23 - pendrive, stb.). Display the items as checkboxes!

8. In a survey system we store the questions, the possible answers and the correct solution for each test.
    
    - a. Generate the from containing the questions, the possible answers in a way, that only one answer can be correct! For this, use the appropriate input element!
    
    - b. How to change the form in the previous subtask if there could be many correct answers?

9. In a learning management system we store the name, the neptun ID, the date of birth, and the sex for each student. If calculations are needed, then solve it in a separate function!
    
    - a. Display the student information in an HTML table!
    
    - b. Write out the data of the oldest student!
    
    - c. Decide if there is a girl among the students!
    
    - d. Show the number of boys and girls as two colour bars!

10. Generate a random hexadecimal colour code! For this use the `random_int`, `dechex`, `str_pad` functions (see reference)! If every generated value is greater than 128, then set it as a background colour, otherwise the background colour should be `#cccccc`! Write out the generated colour as a text, and if we used it as a background colour!
