# 9. practice -- Web programming

Tasks
-----

1. Create a web pages (e.g. Hello world) that can be accessed just from the `elte.hu` domain (IP address starts with `157.181.`). Visitors from other domain sees a "No access" message. The input data can be found among the environmental variables (`$_SERVER`).

2. Create a web page, that greets a name that was given as a parameter ("Hello name").
    - a) The name is given in the URL.
    - b) Give the name in a form!

3. Create a web page whose background color can be specified as a parameter.
    - a) The color code is given in the URL!
    - b) Create three links with blue, yellow and red label. Clicking on them change the background color of the page accordingly!
    - c) The color code is given in a form!

4. Create a web page where we can solve the linear equation (ax+b=0)! The value of `a` and `b` can be given in a form. In case of errors the error messages appear as an unordered list above the form. Display the calculated solution below the form. Keep the form state!

5. An employer keeps records of the names, positions and salaries of its employees.
    - a) Display the records as a table!
    - b) Use a text input field and a submit button to show only those names that contain the value of the input field (filter to substring).
    - c) Mark the person with the highest salary in the list with an orange background.
    - d) Also allow filtering of the list by employee position. This can be specified using a drop-down list into which the various positions are entered based on the list.
    - e) Click on the names to display a page where only the data of the given person is displayed.

6. Create a PHP script that loads the PHP file specified as a parameter in the URL. (For example, if the parameter is 'apple', 'apple.php' will be loaded.) Use the `include()` function to load another PHP file!

7. Create a form to add a new contact. For a new contact, you must enter a name, email address, and phone number. If there is an error, show it next to the form field. If successful, write out the submitted data to the page!
    - Name is required.
    - There can be more than one email address, prepare for this! (i.e. it doesn't matter if there are 1, 2 or more fields)!
    - You can enter the phone number in several ways, e.g. as a plain text field, but then check with a regular expression; or area dial + phone number.
