# 10. practice -- Web programming

Feladatok
---------

1. An Excel file was saved in CSV format. Display the file as an HTML table using PHP!

2. Create a webshop with minimal features.
    
    - a. Products are categorized and stored in JSON format. Create this file!
    - b. Make a page with a list of categories!
    - c. Click on the categories to display products in that category on another page with a checkbox next to them. It should be possible to enter a name and address on this page.
    - d. Send this data and save it in a file!
    - e. Create a page where your orders appear as an HTML table!

3. Practice data storage without a user interface. Use the helper classes provided in the lecture for this! Complete the following tasks.

    - a. Create a JSON file, fill it up with some data, and read it!
        - Display all the data that was read!
        - Find a data by ID and write it out!
        - Find a data by some other field and display it!
        - Search in one of the string properties of the data so that the field must contain a value! Display the records you get!
    - b. Create a JSON file that contains an empty collection: `{}`! Write code that
        - adds new items one by one to this collection;
        - finds an item and modifies it;
        - deletes an item by ID;
        - modifies several items at once according to some condition;
        - delete multiple items according to some conditions!

4. Create a contact manager application. A contact contains the following information:
        - Name: required.
        - Email: there can be more than one email address (i.e. it doesn't matter if there are 1, 2 or more fields); validate the email format; at least 1 email address is required!
        - Telephone: optional, but if specified, a format check is required; it can be specified in several ways on the interface.
        - Address: optional
        - Note: optional
        - Sex: required


    The following tasks are required:
    - a. **Add a new contact** Create a page where you can add a new contact according to the rules above.
         - i. Create the form first!
         - ii. Validate data on the server side in PHP. Display the errors next to the form fields. You can use the general form processing template for this section, where you only need to extend the `validate` function:
            ```php
            // functions
            function validate($post, &$data, &$errors) {
                $data = $post;
                // Ellenőrzés
                // ...
                return count($errors) === 0;
            }
            // main
            $data = [];
            $errors = [];
            if (count($_POST) > 0) {
                if (validate($_POST, $data, $errors)) {
                    // Beolvasás: $data
                    // ...
                    // Feldolgozás
                    // ...
                }
            }
            ```
        - iii. Keep the form state!
        - iv. If there is no error in the posted data, save the data! To do this, use the `Storage` class or an extended version of it. If the save is successful, redirect the browser to the listing page.
            ```php
            include('storage.php');

            class CardStorage extends Storage {
                public function __construct() {
                    parent::__construct(new JsonIO('cards.json'));
                }
            }

            $card_storage = new CardStorage();
            ```
    - b. **List contacts** List all stored contacts in an HTML table. Display the name, email, and phone fields. If there are several emails, list them comma-separated!
    - c. **Edit contacts**
        - i. On the listing page, create a link from the name that you can click on to go to the edit page. In the URL, pass the ID of the item to be modified, e.g. `modify.php?id=asdf`.
        - ii. Read the ID from the URL, then read the contact with that ID from the file. Show them on the form!
        - iii. When submitting the form, validate the posted data, display error messages, and keep the form state. For the latter, keep in mind that the sent data must be displayed, otherwise the data of the actual contact! Feel free to copy the codes from the code of adding a new contact: form, check, error message, state preservation.
        - iv. If there are no errors during the validation, update the record for that ID and then redirect the browser to the listing page.
    - d. **Delete Contacts** On the "Edit contact" page, there should be another button next to the edit to delete that contact. This will send a POST message to an endpoint within which the item with that ID will be deleted and then the browser will be redirected back to the listing page! If the button is inside the modification form, you must decide which button was pressed within the same PHP script. The `name` attribute of the button can be used for this.
        ```php
        <?php
        if (isset($_POST['modify'])) {
            // Modify
        }
        if (isset($_POST['delete'])) {
            // Delete
        }
        ?>
        <form action="" method="post">
            <button name="modify" type="submit">Modify</button>
            <button name="delete" type="submit">Delete</button>
        </form>
        ```
        If they are on a separate form, they can be assigned to a separate endpoint:
        ```html
        <form action="modify.php?id=asdf" method="post">
            <button type="submit">Modify</button>
        </form>
        <form action="delete.php?id=asdf" method="post">
            <button type="submit">Delete</button>
        </form>
        ```
    - e. **Filtering** On the listing page it should be possible to filter the contacts by name.
        - i. Put a filter box in a form above the list:
            ```html
            <form action="" method="get">
                Filter tetx: <input type="text" name="filter">
                <button type="submit">Szűr</button>
            </form>
            ```
        - ii. If a filter value arrives, select the contacts whose names contain that value and display them only.
        - iii. If there is no such data, display all the contacts!
        - iv. Extend the filtering possibilities by searching in the "Notes" field as well!
